doc: nrf: nRF21540 built-in power model doc (#9057)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_radio_fem.rst

The MPSL library provides the following GPIO interface implementations:

> * :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio` - For the nRF21540 GPIO/SPI implementation that uses a 3-pin interface and an SPI interface with the nRF21540.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio` - For the nRF21540 GPIO+SPI implementation that uses a 3-pin interface and an SPI interface with the nRF21540.
```

To use FEM power models, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_POWER_MODEL` Kconfig option to ``y``  and either select one of the built-in models or provide a custom model, as described in the following chapters.

.. note::
   In case of nRF21540 GPIO/SPI, the :ref:`_ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio_builtin_power_model` is enabled by default. No additional Kconfig options need to be set then.

.. _ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio_builtin_power_model:

Using nRF21540 GPIO SPI built-in power model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The nRF21540 GPIO SPI built-in power model attempts to keep the nRF21540's gain constant and as close to the currently selected value of gain as possible. The model compensates varying external conditions, which results in the nRF21540 gain being independent of their changes.

Author: I added a caution section that explains that.

To use FEM power models, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_POWER_MODEL` Kconfig option to ``y``  and either select one of the built-in models or provide a custom model, as described in the following chapters.

.. note::

>    In case of nRF21540 GPIO/SPI, the :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio_builtin_power_model` is enabled by default. No additional Kconfig options need to be set then.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In case of nRF21540 GPIO+SPI, the :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio_builtin_power_model` is enabled by default.
```

> .. _ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio_builtin_power_model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_gpio_spi_builtin_power_model:
```

> Using nRF21540 GPIO SPI built-in power model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using nRF21540 GPIO+SPI built-in power model
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The nRF21540 GPIO SPI built-in power model attempts to keep the nRF21540's gain constant and as close to the currently selected value of gain as possible. The model compensates varying external conditions, which results in the nRF21540 gain being independent of their changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nRF21540 GPIO+SPI built-in power model attempts to keep the nRF21540's gain constant and as close to the currently selected value of gain as possible.
The model compensates varying external conditions, which results in the nRF21540 gain being independent of their changes.
```

> .. caution::
>     Only the factory-precalibrated values of gain represented by default values of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTA` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTB` are supported. There are no guarantees on the correctness of the model if applied to compensate external conditions for other values of gain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
    Only the factory-precalibrated values of gain represented by default values of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTA` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTB` are supported.
   There are no guarantees on the correctness of the model if applied to compensate external conditions for other values of gain.
```

To use FEM power models, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_POWER_MODEL` Kconfig option to ``y``  and either select one of the built-in models or provide a custom model, as described in the following chapters.

.. note::
   In case of nRF21540 GPIO+SPI, the :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_gpio_spi_builtin_power_model` is enabled by default.

.. _ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_gpio_spi_builtin_power_model:

Using nRF21540 GPIO+SPI built-in power model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The nRF21540 GPIO+SPI built-in power model attempts to keep the nRF21540's gain constant and as close to the currently selected value of gain as possible.
The model compensates varying external conditions, which results in the nRF21540 gain being independent of their changes.

.. note::

>     Only the factory-precalibrated values of gain represented by default values of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTA` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTB` are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Only the factory-precalibrated values of gain represented by the default values of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTA` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_NRF21540_TX_GAIN_DB_POUTB` are supported.
```

    There are no guarantees on the correctness of the model if applied to compensate external conditions for other values of gain.

> The following external conditions are compensated for by the nRF21540 built-in power model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nRF21540 built-in power model compensates for the following external conditions:
```

The model assumes that the FEM supply voltage is constant.

> To provide the value of this voltage to the MPSL subsystem, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_POWER_VOLTAGE` option.

Reviewer 2: This starts to be a problem, if the model is enabled by default - the user might add nRF21540 FEM with SPI into devicetree, but not change this Kconfig - maybe instead of this Kconfig option this should be done in device tree? I would say this is a hardware parameter.

Author: That is a valid concern and the solution you're suggesting is reasonable. I'll start working on the implementation, changes in this PR will follow when there's something to document.

Author: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/9073 introduces related changes.

Reviewer: So is line 134 still valid?

Author: No, it's not. Thanks for catching that, I'll remove it.

> This model is enabled by default, provided that nRF21540 GPIO/SPI is enabled and selected. Refer to :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio` for instructions how to do that.

Reviewer 2: In this case it would be nice to tell how to disable the model, if the user does not need it and for some reasons (for example scarcity of memory), he wants to disable it.

The model assumes that the FEM supply voltage is constant.
To provide the value of this voltage to the MPSL subsystem, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_POWER_VOLTAGE` option.

> This model is enabled by default, provided that nRF21540 GPIO/SPI is enabled and selected. Refer to :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio` for instructions how to do that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model is enabled by default, provided that nRF21540 GPIO+SPI is enabled and selected.
To enable and select nRF21540 GPIO+SPI, see :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_gpio_spi`.
```

Author: You've suggested to rename `ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_spi_gpio` to `ug_radio_fem_nrf21540_gpio_spi`, but this section is already referenced in other parts of the documentation and I'd prefer not to change it. Is that acceptable?

> Although the built-in model significantly improves the performance of nRF21540 in varying external conditions, in certain scenarios it might be desirable to disable it, e.g. to save memory. To disable the model and the resulting compensation, set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_POWER_MODEL` to ``n``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the built-in model significantly improves the performance of nRF21540 in varying external conditions, in certain scenarios you might want to disable it, for example, to save memory.
To disable the model and the resulting compensation, set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_FEM_POWER_MODEL` to ``n``.
```

> The figures below summarize the performance improvement of nRF21540 when the built-in model is used. The data points in the figures are results of nRF21540 gain measurements performed in controlled, laboratory conditions. Each of the figures compares gain achieved by a nRF21540 device in two cases: when the built-in model is used to control nRF21540 gain settings, and when the model is disabled. All the external conditions the model compensates for, i.e. temperature, supply voltage, carrier frequency and input power are presented in the figures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The figures below summarize the performance improvement of the nRF21540 when the built-in model is used.
The data points in the figures are results of nRF21540 gain measurements performed in controlled, laboratory conditions.
Each of the figures compares the gain achieved by a nRF21540 device in two cases: when the built-in model is used to control the nRF21540 gain settings, and when the model is disabled.
All the external conditions the model compensates for, like temperature, supply voltage, carrier frequency, and input power, are presented in the figures.
```

> The figures are divided into three groups, each of the group representing performance improvement over frequency and one other external condition for the two factory-precalibrated values of gain.

Reviewer 2: It is worth commenting why for 20dB there results are too low for certain voltage (this is because of FEM physical limitations at these voltages)

Author: In terms of readability, do you prefer it to be explained here or closest to the related figure?

Reviewer 2: I would suggest adding 
`
.. note::   For 20dB and low voltages a better compensation cannot be achieved due to nRF21540 hardware limitations.
`
After all figures

To build with the |nRFVSC|, specify ``-DSHIELD=nrf21540_ek`` in the **Extra Cmake arguments** field.
See :ref:`cmake_options`.

> When building for a board with an additional network core, for example nRF5340, add the ``-DSHIELD`` variable with the *childImageName_* parameter between ``-D`` and ``SHIELD`` to build for the network core. In such case, the application core is only responsible for forwarding pins needed to control the nRF21540 to the network core. It can be set up to do so through setting ``-DSHIELD=nrf21540_ek_fwd``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building for a board with an additional network core, like the nRF5340, add the ``-DSHIELD`` variable with the *childImageName_* parameter between ``-D`` and ``SHIELD`` to build for the network core.
In this case, the application core is only responsible for forwarding to the network core the pins needed to control the nRF21540 .
It can be set up to do so using the ``-DSHIELD=nrf21540_ek_fwd`` setting.
```

It is not that clear what this "It can be set up to do so using the ``-DSHIELD=nrf21540_ek_fwd`` setting.:" does.

Author: I clarified this sentence.
